---
book: Antifragile
slug: antifragile
chapter: 4
chunk_index: 10
isbn: 9780679645276
source_file: Tale_9780679645276_epub_c04_r1.xhtml
---

1 A technical comment on why the adaptability criterion is innocent of probability (the nontechnical reader should skip the rest of this note). The property in a stochastic process of not seeing at any time period t what would happen in time after t, that is, any period higher than t, hence reacting with a lag, an incompressible lag, is called nonanticipative strategy, a requirement of stochastic integration. The incompressibility of the lag is central and unavoidable. Organisms can only have nonanticipative strategies—hence nature can only be nonpredictive. This point is not trivial at all, and has even confused probabilists such as the Russian School represented by Stratonovich and the users of his method of integration, who fell into the common mental distortion of thinking that the future sends some signal detectable by us. We wish.

2 Strong antifragility is when the love of volatility knows no bound—the gains have a remote limit or are truly unlimited—the sky is the limit. These can only exist in artificial, man-made life such as economic contracts and cultural products, not really in natural processes. More in the Appendix.

3 He and his co-authors published in the journal Genes a paper on the idea of antifragility in biological systems. Interestingly, the article was in response to a draft of this book; in turn this book was modified in response to Danchin’s article.

4 Many people think at first that their own death is the worst Black Swan scenario. It is not. Unless they’ve studied too much modern economics, they would agree explicitly that their death plus the death of their loved ones plus the termination of humanity would be a vastly worse outcome than their own death. Recall my comment on complex systems. We are a mere part of a large chain, and we are worried about both ourselves and the system, as well as the preservation of parts of that large chain.

5 A correspondent, Jean-Louis Rheault, wrote, “I have noticed that the more people glorify the entrepreneur as an abstraction, the more they will scorn an actual one they meet.”
