---
book: Antifragile
slug: antifragile
chapter: 19
chunk_index: 6
isbn: 9780679645276
source_file: Tale_9780679645276_epub_c19_r1.xhtml
---

The difference is called the “negative convexity bias” (or, if you are a stickler, “concavity bias”). The hidden harm of fragility is that you need to be much, much better than random in your prediction and knowing where you are going, just to offset the negative effect.

Let me summarize the argument: if you have favorable asymmetries, or positive convexity, options being a special case, then in the long run you will do reasonably well, outperforming the average in the presence of uncertainty. The more uncertainty, the more role for optionality to kick in, and the more you will outperform. This property is very central to life.

1 The method does not require a good model for risk measurement. Take a ruler. You know it is wrong. It will not be able to measure the height of the child. But it can certainly tell you if he is growing. In fact the error you get about the rate of growth of the child is much, much smaller than the error you would get measuring his height. The same with a scale: no matter how defective, it will almost always be able to tell you if you are gaining weight, so stop blaming it.

Convexity is about acceleration. The remarkable thing about measuring convexity effects to detect model errors is that even if the model used for the computation is wrong, it can tell you if an entity is fragile and by how much it is fragile. As with the defective scale, we are only looking for second-order effects.

2 I am simplifying a bit. There may be a few degrees’ variation around 70 at which the grandmother might be better off than just at 70, but I skip this nuance here. In fact younger humans are antifragile to thermal variations, up to a point, benefiting from some variability, then losing such antifragility with age (or disuse, as I suspect that thermal comfort ages people and makes them fragile).

3 I remind the reader that this section is technical and can be skipped.

4 The grandmother does better at 70 degrees Fahrenheit than at an average of 70 degrees with one hour at 0, another at 140 degrees. The more dispersion around the average, the more harm for her. Let us see the counterintuitive effect in terms of x and function of x, f(x). Let us write the health of the grandmother as f(x), with x the temperature. We have a function of the average temperature, f{(0 + 140)/2}, showing the grandmother in excellent shape. But {f(o) + f(140)}/2 leaves us with a dead grandmother at f(0) and a dead grandmother at f(140), for an “average” of a dead grandmother. We can see an explanation of the statement that the properties of f(x) and those of x become divorced from each other when f(x) is nonlinear. The average of f(x) is different from f(average of x).
