---
book: The Bed of Procrustes
slug: bed-of-procrustes
chapter: 2
chunk_index: 2
isbn: 9780679643685
source_file: Tale_9780679643685_epub3_c02_r1.xhtml
---

It is as difficult to avoid bugging others with advice on how to exercise and other health matters as it is to stick to an exercise schedule.

By praising someone for his lack of defects you are also implying his lack of virtues.

If powerful assholes don’t find you “arrogant,” it means you are doing something wrong.

When she shouts that what you did was unforgivable, she has already started to forgive you.

Being unimaginative is only a problem when you are easily bored.

People feel deep anxiety finding out that someone they thought was stupid is actually more intelligent than they are.

We call narcissistic those individuals who behave as if they were the central residents of the world; those who do exactly the same in a set of two we call lovers or, better, “blessed by love.”

Friendship that ends was never one; there was at least one sucker in it.

Most people fear being without audiovisual stimulation because they are too repetitive when they think and imagine things on their own.

When someone writes “I dislike you but I agree with you,” I read “I dislike you because I agree with you.”

Unrequited hate is vastly more diminishing for the self than unrequited love. You can’t react by reciprocating.

A government stating, “We will not stand idle in front of atrocities committed by [foreign dictator XYZ]” is typically trying to mitigate the guilt for standing idle in front of more atrocities committed by said XYZ.

For the compassionate, sorrow is more easily displaced by another sorrow than by joy.

Wisdom in the young is as unattractive as frivolity in the elderly.

Some people are only funny when they try to be serious.

It is difficult to stop the impulse to reveal secrets in conversation, as if information had the desire to live and the power to multiply.

It is a very powerful manipulation to let others win the small battles.

If you want strangers to help you, smile. For those close to you, cry.
